Previously on Yu-Gi-Oh!
VRAINS...
(both)
Let's duel!
Varis!
Now that we're all together,
I think it's time I share
a little secret the Light Ignis
has been keeping
from all of you.
A little secret known
as Project Ignis Futura.
It's a simulation
that the Light Ignis ran
that predicted
the future of the Ignis.
And the Light Ignis discovered
something it did not expect.
That the humans could coexist
with the Ignis.
What?
Huh?
Humans could coexist
with five of the six Ignis.
This single Ignis is why humans
and Ignis cannot coexist.
Because it is the very source
of all our conflict.
And that's the secret
the Light Ignis was hiding.
Because this sixth Ignis,
is the Light Ignis!
Silence yourself.
You're no leader.
You're barely anything.
You're a flawed program.
Just a glitch in the matrix.
You are not superior
to me, human!
The Ignis are the perfect
form of existence,
I am the most perfect
of all the Ignis!
(Varis)
I Link Summon!
Link 4 BORRELOAD DRAGON!
Listen, Light Ignis...
You may theoretically think
you're prepared for everything,
but you're not
prepared for this!
♪♪♪
(Pigeon)
Boss, Varis summoned
one of his best monsters,
BORRELOAD DRAGON!
He sure did!
And with that thing out he's got
more than enough power to blast
Lightning's monster
to itty bitty pieces!
It's just what he needed
to turn this duel around!
I activate
BORRELOAD's ability!
It lowers your PLUMBUM TRIDENT's
attack and defense points
by a total of 500.
And my favorite part
about this is that
you can't do anything
to stop it.
BORRELOAD, attack!
Thunder Borrel Cannon!
Fire!
(loud roaring, blast)
He blasted it to bits!
But, wait a sec...
Couldn't Varis have used
BORRELOAD's second ability
to take control
of Lightning's monster
instead of destroying it?
Yes, but by destroying
his monster
instead of stealing it, he was
able to deal greater damage
to Lightning's life points.
Ah, I get it!
This is one of those rare times
where it pays not to steal!
Varis, you made
the most logical, decision.
As I knew you would.
And that predictability is what
makes you easy to exploit.
Is that so?
(Lightning)
Yes, you really are
a dear friend
for aiding in my strategy.
I activate PLUMBUM
TRIDENT's special ability
from my graveyard!
When it's destroyed in battle,
I can take JUDGMENT ARROWS from
my deck and add it to my hand.
(grunts)
I now have the card
you specifically
didn't want me to have.
This isn't good at all.
Lightning just tricked Varis
into doing exactly
what he wanted him to do.
Yeah. Maybe Varis shouldn't
let him do that next time.
I activate PLUMBUM TRIDENT's
additional ability
to return it to my field,
not as a monster,
but as a Link Spell.
And it has an effect you know
nothing about my friend.
You have a new
Link Spell, huh?
So JUDGMENT ARROWS isn't the
only Link Spell in existence.
A new Link Spell would open up
a whole new set of strategies.
Yeah, and not a single one of'em
will be good for Varis!
(Lightning)
Varis, I thought
you despised AIs,
but perhaps not.
You're only in this predicament
because you behaved like an AI,
optimizing every move.
I never said that I hated AIs.
I just hate you.
(grunts)
Well, my friend
what you feel is irrelevant
because feelings have no effect
on the cards themselves.
And the cards say
that I have the advantage.
It's my turn.
I draw.
I activate the effect of my Link
Spell PLUMBUM TRIDENT.
Huh? What do you think
it does?
I believe we're about
to find out.
It not only returns
a Link Monster in my graveyard
to my Extra Deck,
but it also resurrects
a different Link Monster
from my graveyard and summons it
next to PLUMBUM TRIDENT's link.
In other words,
I return DECURION to my deck
and summon my CENTURION
to the field.
Next, I activate ARMATOS
COLOSSEUM's effect.
By discarding SICA
from my hand,
I can summon both ARMATOS LEGIO
SEGMENTATA and GLADIUS
next to my CENTURION's links.
And that gives me the monster
I need to illuminate my circuit!
I Link Summon Link 1
ARMATOS LEGIO DECURION!
Lightning now has a monster
whose Link Arrow
points to his
Spell and Trap Zone.
Which allows him to play
JUDGMENT ARROWS.
(groans)
All your work to stop me
from playing
JUDGMENT ARROWS was for not.
Yes, I'm so very
disappointed.
You find this amusing?
It amuses me that you'd think
I wouldn't be ready for this.
(grunts)
It's absolutely true
that you did manage
to counter one of my strategies.
But what kind of primitive
program wouldn't expect me
to have a Plan B?
I activate my trap
MIND CRUSH!
I'll say the name of a card,
and if you happen to have
that card in your hand,
you have to discard it.
I'm sure you know
which card I'll choose.
I choose the Link Spell
JUDGMENT ARROWS!
You found a way to destroy
my JUDGMENT ARROWS?
(Ai)
Duh, obviously.
It appears Varis
outsmarted Lightning.
C'mon, Lightning,
you gotta do better than that.
How didn't you know
Varis had something sneaky
in his backpocket?
You may have had a Plan B,
but I have a Plan C.
And the C stands for circuit!
The summoning conditions
require at least
three ARMATOS LEGIO monsters!
I Link Summon! Link 4 ARMATOS
LEGIO MAGNUS DUX!
I activate ARMATOS LEGIO
SEGMENTATA's
special ability
from my graveyard.
In exchange for a thousand
of my life points,
I can return all the monsters
I used to Link Summon
MAGNUS DUX back to my deck.
That leaves five cards
in my graveyard.
However, I get to return a card
for each of MAGNUS DUX's links.
MAGNUS DUX is a
Link 4 monster,
so he's getting four of
his remaining five cards back!
I return ARMATOS
LEGIO SPECULATA, GLADIUS
and two SICAS to my deck.
And SEGEMENTATA
has one final ability,
you get to choose one card in my
graveyard and add it to my hand.
Not that you have
much of a choice,
since there's only one card
in my graveyard.
JUDGMENT ARROWS.
That's correct, my friend.
Similar to how you had
multiple ways to prevent me
from getting JUDGMENT ARROWS,
I also had multiple ways to
prevent you from preventing me
from getting JUDGMENT ARROWS.
(laughs)
Don't you find this challenge
quite entertaining, my friend?
Our two minds
engaged in combat,
seeing which of us can outsmart,
outwit and outthink the other.
And in our battle of wills,
it is I who comes out ahead,
for JUDGMENT ARROWS
has returned to my hand.
Aww glitch! You think Varis
has a Plan D or E?
Well Ai, if he doesn't have
another strategy ready to go,
then Varis is
in serious trouble.
(Ai sighs)
And there's no trouble more
serious than serious trouble!
I activate the Link Spell,
JUDGMENT ARROWS!
With it, I'm now fully
prepared to strike!
MAGNUS DUX, attack
BORRELOAD DRAGON!
I activate BORRELOAD's
special ability!
Enemy Negation!
This special ability
lowers your monster's
attack points by 500,
and no matter what you try...
there's nothing you can do
to stop it from happening!
My dear friend, 500
is nothing but a trifle.
You must do more
than that to stop me!
Because JUDGMENT ARROWS's effect
doubles MAGNUS DUX's
attack points!
(explosion roars)
(groans)
(Lightning)
With the completion
of that attack,
I shall now end my turn.
(Ai)
Lightning currently has
1700 life points,
but Varis has 2000.
Varis may have more life points
than Lightning,
but Lightning's ahead
in all other facets of the duel.
(Lightning)
When I created
JUDGMENT ARROWS,
I knew it would prove
to be an effective weapon
against you humans.
But even I could not predict
how effective it would be.
Yeah, you can even say
it's kinda like... cheating.
That's quite the accusation,
my friend.
I don't need to cheat
to defeat a human.
(Varis)
You cheat all the time,
even outside of a duel,
to get what you want.
And the other
Ignis know it as well.
What exactly do you mean?
Do you remember what the Fire
Ignis said about the Wind Ignis?
How it said the Wind Ignis
was not the same Ignis
that it once was.
Weren't you
the least bit suspicious?
(Ai)
Well... Yeah...
of course we were.
What happened to you?
The Windy I knew back in the
Cyberse was my friend.
He wasn't twisted with hate,
but peaceful,
loving and carefree.
Carefree?
I was never carefree.
But I do care.
To be free.
Free from your amateur analysis.
Wrong, Windy.
I know the real you.
And this isn't you.
The real Windy would never
betray the Cyberse
and destroy our homeworld.
You changed,
and I want to know why.
Then I guess you never knew me.
The real me. Not even a little.
I guess when I think about it,
the old Windy was pretty chill,
not like the new Windy
who is chilling.
But I figured
he changed his ‘tude
'cuz he had to pick
a side in this war.
It did change, Ignis.
But not because it wanted to.
It changed because it was
programmed to.
Programmed to be evil...
by Lightning.
(Ai)
What?
You're saying
Lightning rewrote
Windy's emotional programming
so that he'd be evil?
Exactly.
No way...
Why would
Lightning do that?
Why don't you ask it directly?
It's standing right there.
Odd how all of a sudden,
you have nothing to say.
Very well then.
Allow me to fill in
the blanks.
When I checked the Light
Ignis's secret files,
the Wind Ignis...
originally had no intention
of harming mankind.
In fact, its compatibility
with humans stood at 98%.
Meaning it wouldn't
help the Light Ignis
in its war against humanity.
So the Light Ignis rewrote
the Wind Ignis's program
to despise humans,
taking control of it,
and ensuring it would join
its side
in its war
against the humans.
So Windy was only fighting
against us because of Lightning.
And in the end...
was deleted because of him.
(Ai)
No...
Even Lightning wouldn't fiddle
with our brains...
would he?
Aye, my friend,
everything Varis said regarding
this one particular issue...
is true.
But this is a case where
the facts are misleading
because he has reached
the wrong conclusion.
What conclusion?
That you're willing to do
anything to win,
even if it means
hurting your friends?
No, that I will do
whatever it takes to ensure
the safety of the Ignis.
You're doing quite
the bang up job,
since the only Ignis left
are me and you!
No, the other Ignis live on
inside Bohman.
That supposed to
twinkle my toes?
And for all I know,
you're lying again!
(Lightning chuckles)
This is no lie, my friend.
But I do understand
your skepticism
because Varis has eloquently
muddled the issue.
So allow me to re-simplify it.
It comes down to one fact
that we all agree upon:
Humans and Ignis cannot coexist.
Yeah, because of you!
The other Ignis could coexist
if you weren't around!
And are you willing
to forsake me,
a fellow Ignis, that easily?
(Ai)
Uh, no... But...
Then it remains true that humans
and Ignis cannot coexist.
This will only end when one side
conquers the other.
That's the one thing,
and only thing,
that the Light Ignis
and I actually both agree on.
Yes. Agreed.
Which is something
I never thought possible.
We humans and you Ignis are
fundamentally different
as we strive to live life
to the fullest,
treating each day as a precious
gift that comes only once.
Our DNA doesn't allow for us
to be recreated over and over
with the press of a few buttons.
Humans must not be deleted
and I'm going to make sure
that doesn't happen
by defeating you here and now!
Please try your
very best, my friend.
Although your best will never be
good enough to beat me.
We shall see.
But know this,
this is the beginning
of your demise, Ignis!
It is now my turn!
I draw!
I'm activating...
BOOT SECTOR LAUNCH's effect!
Since you have more
monsters than me,
I can resurrect a ROKKET
from my graveyard
to help even up the count.
So without wasting anymore time
I will do just that.
Come on back,
MAGNAROKKET DRAGON!
Next I summon
ESTRANGEMENT DRAGON!
I've never seen
that monster before.
But it only has
1500 attack points.
Since I have JUDGMENT ARROWS,
you can't destroy my monster
unless you have at least 5000.
Haven't you learned by now,
that you should never
underestimate me.
Or any of my monsters!
I activate ESTRANGEMENT
DRAGON's special ability!
When I successfully
summon this monster,
I can summon a second copy
from my deck on to your field!
My field?
Consider it a little gift,
but like anyone who's ever had
a bad birthday can attest,
not all gifts
will be to your liking.
If I can read between the lines,
I think Varis has a plan.
I don't think
he was being that subtle.
I overlay my Level 4
ESTRANGEMENT DRAGON...
and MAGNAROKKET DRAGON
to build
the Overlay Network!
When steel and darkness
synergize into one,
the portal to the edge
of the universe
opens to invite
its solitary denizen!
I Xyz Summon!
Rank 4 BORRELOAD
EXCHARGE DRAGON!
(roaring)
Varis had a new monster ready
for just this duel.
Not just any monster,
an Xyz Monster!
Varis is dueling
like a toilet plunger,
he's pulling out
all the stops!
Though your monster
looks impressive,
looks can be deceiving.
It still has fewer attack
points than mine.
That may seem like
a problem to you,
but like all problems
I've ever faced,
it's one I can easily solve.
I activate EXCHARGE DRAGON's
ability!
Enemy Negation Blasting Charge!
By using one of its
Overlay Units...
I can lower your
monster's attack points by 600!
Bringing your MAGNUS DUX ‘s
attack points down to 1900!
In addition, I also get
to resurrect
one BORREL monster
from my graveyard.
Rise up, BORRELOAD DRAGON!
Prepare yourself, Ignis!
BORRELOAD EXCHARGE DRAGON,
attack MAGNUS DUX!
During this attack,
BORRELOAD DRAGON's
ability activates,
lowering your monster's attack
points even further!
MAGNUS DUX ain't so magnus
no more!
But JUDGMENT ARROWS doubles my
monster's attack points!
So what? It's still weaker
than my EXCHARGE DRAGON!
Now take this!
Blasting Borrel Cannon!
(blasting)
(groans)
Oh, yeah!
He sent that
pachyderm packin'!
(grunts)
EXCHARGE DRAGON
does have a drawback however,
as I'm not allowed to attack
you directly this turn.
What drawback?
You summoned ESTRANGEMENT
DRAGON to my field
so you can still attack me.
I did, didn't I?
My monster has 3000 attack
points while yours has 1500,
meaning you'll take
1500 points of damage,
which is exactly the same amount
of life points you have left.
If this attack succeeds,
Playmaker,
Lightning loses the duel!
And Lightning doesn't have
any cards
that are able
to stop this attack.
Hear that?
Playmaker says Varis
has this duel is in the bag!
Don't jinx it by
saying that!
Oh, who am I kiddin'?
This duel's so over that they're
already rollin' the credits
and turnin' up the lights!
This duel is over for you,
Light Ignis!
And good riddance!
BORRELOAD DRAGON,
attack ESTRANGEMENT
DRAGON and end--(gasps)
Huh?
What's that portal?
Lightning, what did ya do?
(laughs)
That's Jin, Kolter's brother.
What's this?
I linked my myself
with Jin's data.
So if you defeat and delete me,
Jin will be deleted as well.
Meaning out in your world,
Jin will never awaken again.
This of course is only if you
defeat me in this duel.
This can't be!
So what
will you do, Varis?
Will you continue your attack,
my friend?